README.md, before:

# Synthetic comparison of Software Engineering programs.

## What will you find in this document?
In this document you will find a comparison between the educational plan of the Degree in Software Engineering taught at the Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán (UADY) with respect to the Software Engineering program of the Universidad Politécnica de Quintana Roo. You can see it better in the next list of contents.

## List of contents
* [What is Software Engineering?](#item1)
* [Program Objective](#item2)
* [Curriculum map](#item3)
    * [Social Environment](#item4)
    * [Math](#item5)
    * [Computer Architecture](#item6)
    * [Networks](#item7)
    * [Base Software](#item8)
    * [Programming and Software Engineering](#item9)
    * [Information Processing](#item10)
    * [Human – Machine Interaction](#item11)
* [Technical knowledge](#item12)
* [Technical/soft skills](#item13)
* [Promotion of IS competencies](#item14)
* [Areas of opportunity/disadvantages](#item15)
* [Costs](#item16)
* [Relationship with the industry](#item17)
* [Certifications](#item18)
* [Specializations](#item19)
* [References](#item20)

<a What is Software Engineering id="item1"></a>
### What is Software Engineering?
According to IEEE Standards, 1993: “The application of a systematic, disciplined, and quantifiable approach to the development, operation, and maintenance of software, that is, the application of engineering to software.”

<a Program Objective id="item2"></a>
### Program Objective

#### UADY
Upon completion of the Degree in Software Engineering, the graduate will have knowledge about:
Upon completion of Software Engineering, the graduate will have knowledge about:

1. Methodologies and techniques for small and large scale software development, such as requirements development, human-computer interaction, design, construction, evolution, testing and those related to administration, such as quality assurance and administration of projects.
2. Computer sciences, which allow the viable application of algorithms, data structures and programming languages in software development.
3. Tools for the specification and modeling of software systems, as well as for the evaluation of software processes and products for their improvement.
4. Administration and optimization of time and cost of resources involved in software development.
5. The social environment to describe the social, political, ecological and ethical factors related to technological development and professional performance.
6. Research areas related to Software Engineering.

#### UPQROO
The Software Engineer graduated from UPQROO has comprehensive training based on competencies, with knowledge, attitudes, skills and abilities to automate processes through the design, development or updating of software systems, which allows him to interact in different fields of action. and perform better in the public or private company, institution or organization in the industrial, commercial and service sectors; in the areas of:

1. Design and development of quality custom and/or generic software.
2. Management, administration and implementation of innovation projects in the software area.
3. Integration of new software solutions to modern services such as electronic commerce.
4. Design and creation of databases and applications for their manipulation.
5. Technical and strategic support for the information technology infrastructure.
6. Research in the field of development and reengineering of information technologies.

<a  Curriculum map id="item3"></a>
### Curriculum map 
We will see more details in the following sections but you can see the full curriculum map on the next websites:
* [UADY](https://www.matematicas.uady.mx/files/documents/programas/lis/Malla-CurricularLIS-MEFI.pdf)
* [UPQROO](https://upqroo.edu.mx/ingenieria-en-software/)

<a Social Environment id="item4"></a>
### Social Environment

| UADY                             | UPQROO                                         |
|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| University Social Responsibility | Emotional intelligence and conflict management |
| Mayan culture                    | Professional ethics                            |
|                                  | Human development and values                   |
|                                  | Leadership of high performance teams           |


 University Social Responsibility
 Mayan culture

<a Math id="item5"></a>
### Math
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Computer Architecture id="item6"></a>
### Computer Architecture
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Networks id="item7"></a>
### Networks
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Base Software id="item8"></a>
### Base Software
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Programming and Software Engineering id="item9"></a>
### Programming and Software Engineering
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Information Processing id="item10"></a>
### Information Processing
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Human Machine Interaction id="item11"></a>
### Human – Machine Interaction
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Technical knowledge id="item12"></a>
### Technical knowledge
Lorem ipsum dolor

<a Technical or soft skills id="item13"></a>
### Technical/soft skills
In Uady´s curriculum soft skills are stated as graduation skills, specifically, in each of the four competency areas there is a section that describes different communication, creative and emotional abilities in an unambiguous and understandable manner. the abilities are developed trough each of the classes, with an emphasis on developing soft skills through teamwork and sections where you must communicate your ideas to the class.

UPQROO´s program doesn´t include a clear description of the desired soft skills, but there are many different classes that are dedicated to the developing soft skills like “EXPRESIÓN ORAL Y ESCRITA I”, “DESARROLLO HUMANO Y VALORES”, “INTELIGENCIA EMOCIONAL Y MANEJO DE CONFLICTOS”, “HABILIDADES COGNITIVAS Y CREATIVIDAD” etc.

We personally think that Uady´s focus is more adequate since it resembles the real-world use of soft skills more where you have to apply them In different scenarios and projects, as well as being more manageable and constant trough the duration of the program

<a Promotion of IS competencies id="item14"></a>
### Promotion of IS competencies
Lorem ipsum dolor

<a Areas of opportunity or disadvantages id="item15"></a>
### Areas of opportunity/disadvantages

#### UADY
Some of the examples of areas of concentration that UADY offers in the student guide are:
* Software Process Improvement
* Programming on the web
* Videogames
* Educational informatics

#### UPQROO
The UPQROO does not specify in its program the advantages in technical knowledge with respect to a reference framework. 

<a Costs id="item16"></a>
### Costs

| UADY                                                                                                  | UPQROO                                                                          |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is a public and autonomous university institution, located in the city of Mérida, Yucatán, in Mexico. | Founded in 2010, UPQROO is a public institution that provides higher education. |

<a Relationship with the industry id="item17"></a>
### Relationship with the industry

#### UADY
It has a job bank aimed at supporting UADY university students, whether they are students who are about to carry out their professional internships and graduates who are in the process of finding a job.

#### UPQROO
It has a job board aimed at university graduates and a stay section for students of the institution.

<a Certifications id="item18"></a>
### Certifications
Lorem ipsum dolor

<a Specializations id="item19"></a>
### Specializations
Lorem ipsum dolor

<a References id="item20"></a>
### References
[Definition of Software Engineering](https://www.dit.upm.es/~fsaez/intl/ingenieria_del_software_factores_economicos_y_humanos.pdf)

[Graduation Profile UADY](https://www.matematicas.uady.mx/10-facultad/76-perfil-de-egreso-licenciatura-en-ingenieria-de-software)

[Home UPQROO](https://upqroo.edu.mx/ingenieria-en-software/)

[UADY Wikipedia](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universidad_Aut%C3%B3noma_de_Yucat%C3%A1n)

[UPQROO About us](https://upqroo.edu.mx/sobre-nosotros/)

[UADY Job Board](https://uady.mx/vinculacion/bolsa-trabajo)

[UPQROO Business management](https://upqroo.edu.mx/gestion-empresarial/)

Commit message:

Tabuleo e incorporacion de technical knowledge

README.md, after:

# Synthetic comparison of Software Engineering programs.

## What will you find in this document?
In this document you will find a comparison between the educational plan of the Degree in Software Engineering taught at the Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán (UADY) with respect to the Software Engineering program of the Universidad Politécnica de Quintana Roo. You can see it better in the next list of contents.

## List of contents
* [What is Software Engineering?](#item1)
* [Program Objective](#item2)
* [Curriculum map](#item3)
    * [Social Environment](#item4)
    * [Math](#item5)
    * [Computer Architecture](#item6)
    * [Networks](#item7)
    * [Base Software](#item8)
    * [Programming and Software Engineering](#item9)
    * [Information Processing](#item10)
    * [Human – Machine Interaction](#item11)
* [Technical knowledge](#item12)
* [Technical/soft skills](#item13)
* [Promotion of IS competencies](#item14)
* [Areas of opportunity/disadvantages](#item15)
* [Costs](#item16)
* [Relationship with the industry](#item17)
* [Certifications](#item18)
* [Specializations](#item19)
* [References](#item20)

<a What is Software Engineering id="item1"></a>
### What is Software Engineering?
According to IEEE Standards, 1993: “The application of a systematic, disciplined, and quantifiable approach to the development, operation, and maintenance of software, that is, the application of engineering to software".

---

<a Program Objective id="item2"></a>
### Program Objective

#### UADY
Upon completion of the Degree in Software Engineering, the graduate will have knowledge about:
Upon completion of Software Engineering, the graduate will have knowledge about:

1. Methodologies and techniques for small and large scale software development, such as requirements development, human-computer interaction, design, construction, evolution, testing and those related to administration, such as quality assurance and administration of projects.
2. Computer sciences, which allow the viable application of algorithms, data structures and programming languages in software development.
3. Tools for the specification and modeling of software systems, as well as for the evaluation of software processes and products for their improvement.
4. Administration and optimization of time and cost of resources involved in software development.
5. The social environment to describe the social, political, ecological and ethical factors related to technological development and professional performance.
6. Research areas related to Software Engineering.

#### UPQROO
The Software Engineer graduated from UPQROO has comprehensive training based on competencies, with knowledge, attitudes, skills and abilities to automate processes through the design, development or updating of software systems, which allows him to interact in different fields of action. and perform better in the public or private company, institution or organization in the industrial, commercial and service sectors; in the areas of:

1. Design and development of quality custom and/or generic software.
2. Management, administration and implementation of innovation projects in the software area.
3. Integration of new software solutions to modern services such as electronic commerce.
4. Design and creation of databases and applications for their manipulation.
5. Technical and strategic support for the information technology infrastructure.
6. Research in the field of development and reengineering of information technologies.
---
<a  Curriculum map id="item3"></a>
### Curriculum map 
We will see more details in the following sections but you can see the full curriculum map on the next websites:
* [UADY](https://www.matematicas.uady.mx/files/documents/programas/lis/Malla-CurricularLIS-MEFI.pdf)
* [UPQROO](https://upqroo.edu.mx/ingenieria-en-software/)
---
<a Social Environment id="item4"></a>
### Social Environment

| UADY                             | UPQROO                                         |
|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| University Social Responsibility | Emotional intelligence and conflict management |
| Mayan culture                    | Professional ethics                            |
|                                  | Human development and values                   |
|                                  | Leadership of high performance teams           |

---
<a Math id="item5"></a>
### Math
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Computer Architecture id="item6"></a>
### Computer Architecture
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Networks id="item7"></a>
### Networks
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Base Software id="item8"></a>
### Base Software
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Programming and Software Engineering id="item9"></a>
### Programming and Software Engineering
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Information Processing id="item10"></a>
### Information Processing
lorem  ipsum dolor

<a Human Machine Interaction id="item11"></a>
### Human – Machine Interaction


---
<a Technical knowledge id="item12"></a>
### Technical knowledge
The curriculum of UPQRoo spans a duration of 40 months and includes a wide variety of courses that range from basic fundamentals to advanced areas of computer science. Notably, it stands out for the inclusion of courses related to personal and professional skills, such as emotional intelligence, cognitive abilities, leadership, and professional ethics. From a technical perspective, the curriculum covers fundamental aspects such as mathematics, algorithms, data structures, object-oriented programming, software architecture, networks, and operating systems. It also incorporates emerging and relevant areas like artificial intelligence, information security, mobile programming, and software financial analysis.

On the other hand, the curriculum at UADY has a duration of 54 months and encompasses a broad spectrum of technical knowledge in computer science. It focuses on practical and technical aspects, including algorithmics, data structures, computer architecture and organization, operating systems, and web application development. Additionally, it addresses crucial topics related to software quality, human-computer interaction, software metrics, quality assurance, and project management.

Both universities provide a strong foundation in computer science, covering key aspects such as algorithms, data structures, programming, and software architecture. UPQRoo distinguishes itself by including courses related to personal and professional skills, in addition to addressing emerging topics like artificial intelligence and information security. Conversely, UADY concentrates on essential technical and practical aspects, adding value through courses related to software quality and human-computer interaction.


---
<a Technical or soft skills id="item13"></a>
### Technical/soft skills
In Uady´s curriculum soft skills are stated as graduation skills, specifically, in each of the four competency areas there is a section that describes different communication, creative and emotional abilities in an unambiguous and understandable manner. the abilities are developed trough each of the classes, with an emphasis on developing soft skills through teamwork and sections where you must communicate your ideas to the class.

UPQROO´s program doesn´t include a clear description of the desired soft skills, but there are many different classes that are dedicated to the developing soft skills like “EXPRESIÓN ORAL Y ESCRITA I”, “DESARROLLO HUMANO Y VALORES”, “INTELIGENCIA EMOCIONAL Y MANEJO DE CONFLICTOS”, “HABILIDADES COGNITIVAS Y CREATIVIDAD” etc.

We personally think that Uady´s focus is more adequate since it resembles the real-world use of soft skills more where you have to apply them In different scenarios and projects, as well as being more manageable and constant trough the duration of the program.

---
<a Promotion of IS competencies id="item14"></a>
### Promotion of IS competencies
Lorem ipsum dolor
d
---
<a Areas of opportunity or disadvantages id="item15"></a>
### Areas of opportunity/disadvantages

#### UADY
Some of the examples of areas of concentration that UADY offers in the student guide are:
* Software Process Improvement
* Programming on the web
* Videogames
* Educational informatics

#### UPQROO
The UPQROO does not specify in its program the advantages in technical knowledge with respect to a reference framework. 

---
<a Costs id="item16"></a>
### Costs

| UADY                                                                                                  | UPQROO                                                                          |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is a public and autonomous university institution, located in the city of Mérida, Yucatán, in Mexico. | Founded in 2010, UPQROO is a public institution that provides higher education. |

---
<a Relationship with the industry id="item17"></a>
### Relationship with the industry

#### UADY
It has a job bank aimed at supporting UADY university students, whether they are students who are about to carry out their professional internships and graduates who are in the process of finding a job.

#### UPQROO
It has a job board aimed at university graduates and a stay section for students of the institution.

---
<a Certifications id="item18"></a>
### Certifications
Lorem ipsum dolor

---
<a Specializations id="item19"></a>
### Specializations
Lorem ipsum dolor

---
<a References id="item20"></a>
### References
[Definition of Software Engineering](https://www.dit.upm.es/~fsaez/intl/ingenieria_del_software_factores_economicos_y_humanos.pdf)

[Graduation Profile UADY](https://www.matematicas.uady.mx/10-facultad/76-perfil-de-egreso-licenciatura-en-ingenieria-de-software)

[Home UPQROO](https://upqroo.edu.mx/ingenieria-en-software/)

[UADY Wikipedia](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universidad_Aut%C3%B3noma_de_Yucat%C3%A1n)

[UPQROO About us](https://upqroo.edu.mx/sobre-nosotros/)

[UADY Job Board](https://uady.mx/vinculacion/bolsa-trabajo)

[UPQROO Business management](https://upqroo.edu.mx/gestion-empresarial/)
