# Constructive Criticism

Throughout the semester, we considered it highly positive that what we learned in class could be applied directly to the project we were working on most of the time. Even when direct application wasn't possible, it still helped us to better understand the concepts covered. Therefore, the project played a crucial role in the development of the course, and without it, as a team, we wouldn't have been able to grasp the importance of most topics covered, especially in the process and its management. Similarly, working on the project alongside the topics covered posed initial challenges in organizing the team and the repository, as we lacked any prior knowledge. However, tackling it as we saw fit turned out to be beneficial in understanding our mistakes, why they shouldn't be made, and the consequences they carry. We consider that an area of opportunity is that we only have our work experience, and it could be very beneficial to have some classes at the end of the semester where we hear from other teams about how their experience is similar to ours and why, or why they approached it differently and how, with the teacher commenting on why certain ways of organizing might be preferable than others. This would help us come to conclusions of how we might organize our teams in the future, helping us solidify competencies like team collaboration, time management and communication.

We also think that the teachers should provide a clearer idea of how to use tools like GitHub, by at least recommending videos to us that explain what we need to know in a concise and understandable manner or giving more precise indications of how we should organize our repositories. We know that the focus of the class isn’t learning GitHub and that we should be able to learn by ourselves, however, the fact that there is a lot of different information about GitHub in the internet combined with the imprecise instructions on how to organize our repos resulted in a lot of frustration with the tool and uncertainty in regards to if we were using it in the correct way.

Lastly, we wanted to say that we really enjoyed and appreciated all the guests that gave lectures, it helped us get a better grasp of how software companies function in the real world and what being a software engineer really means. Similarly, the classes carried out by the professors were engaging and had a good balance of theory, real world examples and practical sections. This is an aspect of the course that we found to be very refreshing and that helped us maintain interest and understand the practicality of any given subject.
